CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing Guidelines

## Report an Issue

To report an issue please use the github issue tracker. Please try to make sure you have these in your issue:
* No duplicate
* Reproducible
* Good summary
* Well-documented
* Minimal example

## Issue handling process
When an issue is reported, a committer will look at it and either confirm it as a real issue (by giving the "in progress" label), close it if it is not an issue, or ask for more details. In-progress issues are then either assigned to a committer in GitHub, reported in our internal issue handling system, or left open as "contribution welcome" for easy or not urgent fixes.

An issue that is about a real bug is closed as soon as the fix is committed.

## Contribute Code
You are welcome to contribute code. PRs will be examined and if it fits the quality requirements and the roadmap of the product they will be merged.

## Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)
Due to legal reasons, contributors will be asked to accept a DCO before they submit the first pull request to this projects, this happens in an automated fashion during the submission process. SAP uses [the standard DCO text of the Linux Foundation](https://developercertificate.org/).

Commit message:

[OSS] Add Commitizen (#83)
* [OSS] Add Commitizen

* Update CONTRIBUTING.md

* Update package.json

* ci: add commitizen support

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing Guidelines

## Report an Issue

To report an issue please use the github issue tracker. Please try to make sure you have these in your issue:
* No duplicate
* Reproducible
* Good summary
* Well-documented
* Minimal example

## Issue handling process
When an issue is reported, a committer will look at it and either confirm it as a real issue (by giving the "in progress" label), close it if it is not an issue, or ask for more details. In-progress issues are then either assigned to a committer in GitHub, reported in our internal issue handling system, or left open as "contribution welcome" for easy or not urgent fixes.

An issue that is about a real bug is closed as soon as the fix is committed.

## Contribute Code
You are welcome to contribute code. PRs will be examined and if it fits the quality requirements and the roadmap of the product they will be merged.

## Commit Messages
This project uses [conventional commits standard](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0-beta.2/#specification) with the [@commitlint/config-conventional](https://github.com/conventional-changelog/commitlint/tree/master/%40commitlint/config-conventional).
Recommanded: Use `git cz` to build conventional commit messages.
- requires [commitizen](https://github.com/commitizen/cz-cli#installing-the-command-line-tool) to be installed.

## Developer Certificate of Origin (DCO)
Due to legal reasons, contributors will be asked to accept a DCO before they submit the first pull request to this projects, this happens in an automated fashion during the submission process. SAP uses [the standard DCO text of the Linux Foundation](https://developercertificate.org/).
