packages/controls-navigator/README.md, before:

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/SAP/inquirer-gui.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/SAP/inquirer-gui)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/SAP/inquirer-gui/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/SAP/inquirer-gui?branch=master)
[![Language grade: JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/lgtm/grade/javascript/g/SAP/inquirer-gui.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18)](https://lgtm.com/projects/g/SAP/inquirer-gui/context:javascript)
[![Commitizen friendly](https://img.shields.io/badge/commitizen-friendly-brightgreen.svg)](http://commitizen.github.io/cz-cli/)
![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)
[![REUSE status](https://api.reuse.software/badge/github.com/SAP/inquirer-gui)](https://api.reuse.software/info/github.com/SAP/inquirer-gui)
[![dependentbot](https://api.dependabot.com/badges/status?host=github&repo=SAP/inquirer-gui)](https://dependabot.com/)

# Navigator Control --- stepper style

![alt text](Screenshot1.png "Stepper style screenshot of Navigator")

# Navigator Control --- tab style

![alt text](Screenshot2.png "Tab style screenshot of Navigator")

## Description

Navigator is a navigation control .
It can display the groups in a way like wizard steps or tabs control

## Anatomy

![alt text](Screenshot3.png "Anatomy")

## Control Properties

- navigationType<br/>
  It can be two values:

  - “tab“ : It is a navigation control like tab control. Each group is linkable. It is default value.
  - “stepper”: it is like wizard stepper control that force a user to move linearly through your groups

- prompt-index<br/>
  It is the current group index(zero based)

- prompts<br/>
  It is the groups array, for example:

```js
  [{name:”database”},{name:”authorization”}]
```

- prompt-answers<br/>
  It is only for “stepper” navigation type. It is a group summarization, for example:

```js
  {
    promptName:”group1”,
    answers:[
            {
              "label":"prop1",
              "value":"value1",
              "type":"warning",
            },
            {
              "label":"prop1",
              "value":"value1"
            }
      ]
  }
```

- All-answers<br/>
  It is only for “tab” navigation type. It is initially all the groups summaries. For example:

```js
  {
        "group1":[
            {
              "label":"prop1",
              "value":"value1"
            },
            {
              "label":"prop1",
              "value":"value1"
            }
          ],
          "group2":[
            {
              "label":"prop1",
              "value":"value1"
            }
          ]
  }
```

## Control Event

- on-goto-step<br/>
  When click a group title, this event is emitted .
  - For "tab" type, the event is emitted with group index parameter(zero based).
  - For "stepper" type, the event is emitted with number of steps to go back.

### Usage

If writing a Vue application, simply add the following line to your `<template>` tag:

```html
<NavigatorControl
  :prompt-index="promptIndex"
  :prompts="prompts"
  :all-answers=" allAnswers "
  :prompt-answers="{}"
  navigation-type="tab"
  @on-goto-step="gotoStep"
/>
```

The properties values looks like the following:

```js
{
  promptIndex:0,
  prompts:[{name: "group1"},{name:"group2"}],
  allAnswers:{
    group1:[
      {label:"akey1", value: "aType"},
      {label:"akey2", value: "a", type: "warning"}
    ],
    group2:[
      {label:"bkey1", value: "bType"},
      {label:"", value: "b"}
    ]
  },
  promptAnswers:{},
  navigationType:"tab"
}
```

Import the control:

```js
import NavigatorControl from "@sap-devx/controls-navigator";
const naviOptions = { vuetify };
app.use(NavigatorControl, naviOptions);
```

Import the css file:

```js
import "@sap-devx/controls-navigator/dist/navigator-control.css";
```

## Style overide

- Override “group title” and “group avatar” styles<br/>

![alt text](Screenshot4.png "Override group title and group avatar styles")

- Override style for specific navigator type<br/>

  - For tab style<br/>
    ![alt text](Screenshot6.png "Override style for tab type navigator")

  - For stepper style<br/>
    ![alt text](Screenshot7.png "Override style for stepper type navigator")

- Override “group summary” styles<br/>

![alt text](Screenshot5.png "Override group summary styles")

## How to obtain support

To get more help, support and information please open a github issue.

## Contributing

Contributing information can be found in the [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) file.

Commit message:

feat: support show icon for error (#707)

packages/controls-navigator/README.md, after:

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/SAP/inquirer-gui.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/SAP/inquirer-gui)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/SAP/inquirer-gui/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/SAP/inquirer-gui?branch=master)
[![Language grade: JavaScript](https://img.shields.io/lgtm/grade/javascript/g/SAP/inquirer-gui.svg?logo=lgtm&logoWidth=18)](https://lgtm.com/projects/g/SAP/inquirer-gui/context:javascript)
[![Commitizen friendly](https://img.shields.io/badge/commitizen-friendly-brightgreen.svg)](http://commitizen.github.io/cz-cli/)
![GitHub license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache_2.0-blue.svg)
[![REUSE status](https://api.reuse.software/badge/github.com/SAP/inquirer-gui)](https://api.reuse.software/info/github.com/SAP/inquirer-gui)
[![dependentbot](https://api.dependabot.com/badges/status?host=github&repo=SAP/inquirer-gui)](https://dependabot.com/)

# Navigator Control --- stepper style

![alt text](Screenshot1.png "Stepper style screenshot of Navigator")

# Navigator Control --- tab style

![alt text](Screenshot2.png "Tab style screenshot of Navigator")

## Description

Navigator is a navigation control .
It can display the groups in a way like wizard steps or tabs control

## Anatomy

![alt text](Screenshot3.png "Anatomy")

## Control Properties

- navigationType<br/>
  It can be two values:

  - “tab“ : It is a navigation control like tab control. Each group is linkable. It is default value.
  - “stepper”: it is like wizard stepper control that force a user to move linearly through your groups

- prompt-index<br/>
  It is the current group index(zero based)

- prompts<br/>
  It is the groups array, for example:

```js
  [{name:”database”},{name:”authorization”}]
```

- prompt-answers<br/>
  It is only for “stepper” navigation type. It is a group summarization, for example:

```js
  {
    promptName:”group1”,
    answers:[
            {
              "label":"prop1",
              "value":"value1",
              "type":"warning",
            },
            {
              "label":"prop1",
              "value":"value1"
            }
      ]
  }
```

- All-answers<br/>
  It is only for “tab” navigation type. It is initially all the groups summaries. For example:

```js
  {
        "group1":[
            {
              "label":"prop1",
              "value":"value1"
            },
            {
              "label":"prop1",
              "value":"value1"
            }
          ],
          "group2":[
            {
              "label":"prop1",
              "value":"value1"
            }
          ]
  }
```

- showIconForError<br/>
  If showIconForError equals true, we will use icon to represent the error type and we use the error value as the icon's tooltip. If showIconForError equals false, we display the error value with text in red.
  The default value is false.

## Control Event

- on-goto-step<br/>
  When click a group title, this event is emitted .
  - For "tab" type, the event is emitted with group index parameter(zero based).
  - For "stepper" type, the event is emitted with number of steps to go back.

### Usage

If writing a Vue application, simply add the following line to your `<template>` tag:

```html
<NavigatorControl
  :prompt-index="promptIndex"
  :prompts="prompts"
  :all-answers=" allAnswers "
  :prompt-answers="{}"
  navigation-type="tab"
  @on-goto-step="gotoStep"
  :showIconForError="true"
/>
```

The properties values looks like the following:

```js
{
  promptIndex:0,
  prompts:[{name: "group1"},{name:"group2"}],
  allAnswers:{
    group1:[
      {label:"akey1", value: "aType"},
      {label:"akey2", value: "a", type: "warning"}
    ],
    group2:[
      {label:"bkey1", value: "bType"},
      {label:"", value: "b"}
    ]
  },
  promptAnswers:{},
  navigationType:"tab"
}
```

Import the control:

```js
import NavigatorControl from "@sap-devx/controls-navigator";
const naviOptions = { vuetify };
app.use(NavigatorControl, naviOptions);
```

Import the css file:

```js
import "@sap-devx/controls-navigator/dist/navigator-control.css";
```

## Style overide

- Override “group title” and “group avatar” styles<br/>

![alt text](Screenshot4.png "Override group title and group avatar styles")

- Override style for specific navigator type<br/>

  - For tab style<br/>
    ![alt text](Screenshot6.png "Override style for tab type navigator")

  - For stepper style<br/>
    ![alt text](Screenshot7.png "Override style for stepper type navigator")

- Override “group summary” styles<br/>

![alt text](Screenshot5.png "Override group summary styles")

## How to obtain support

To get more help, support and information please open a github issue.

## Contributing

Contributing information can be found in the [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) file.
